---
layout: blog
title: e-Comas launches white paper on content management
author: Jess Chapman
date: 2025-09-09T09:00:39.963Z
excerpt: e-Comas has launched a new white paper to help brands manage their
  Amazon listings content, particularly helpful for large catalogues
thumbnail: /images/uploads/content-management-cover-new.jpg
thumbnail_alt: Content management white paper front cover
tags:
  - Content
---
<!--StartFragment-->

eCommerce agency e-Comas has launched a fantastic new white paper to help brands manage their Amazon listings content.

Called [‘Managing Content on Amazon’](https://e-comas.com/white-paper-form.html), with the subtitle ‘How to optimise sales and efficiency on Amazon: The complete e-Comas guide to managing your listings content’, the white paper zones in on the challenges for large brands of managing a huge catalogue across online marketplaces, and how they can make it easier.

Produced in-house by the talented team at e-Comas, one of Europe’s leading eCommerce agencies, the white paper offers dozens of insights and useful tips for brands selling across Amazon marketplaces and other online retailers.

### ‘Proud of the work we do for clients’

The white paper was borne of e-Comas’s recent experiences with large brands, in particular one client with thousands of products that uses e-Comas’s team of eCommerce experts to manage its catalogue across online marketplaces.

In addition to managing thousands of ASINs day-to-day with external product information management (PIM) software, e-Comas uses its own internal tools to streamline processes and ensure its clients’ listings are perfect.

Jérôme de Guigné, e-Comas’s founder and CEO, says: “Our whole ethos at e-Comas is about expanding businesses globally, and fast. Managing your content when you’re undergoing that kind of growth doesn’t get talked about a lot, but it’s really important – and as with everything on Amazon, you need to have a strategy.

“This white paper is about letting brands know how they can manage a huge catalogue efficiently, and preparing them for all the problems you can get with content management. And it’s also our chance to show off a bit about the work we do at e-Comas.

“The team of experts we have here – the ‘e-Comets’ – know everything there is to know about content management. I’m so proud of the work we’re doing for our clients, and of this white paper, which everyone has worked so hard on.”

### What good content looks like

Chapter 1 of the white paper explores why content management is important.

Using examples from our own clients, we’ve illustrated what good content on Amazon looks like, and then examined the reasons why it matters to brands and customers:

* Because good content is the #1 way to boost conversion rates
* Because consistency and quality are vital for brand trust
* Because Amazon shoppers rely more on reputable content than brand recognition.

We’ve then listed some of the common challenges with managing content on Amazon, including changing product names, liaising with Amazon, and managing large teams across multiple offices.

### Our survey said…

Chapter 2 of the white paper gives the results of a survey e-Comas carried out in late 2024, exploring how easy it is for brands to manage content on Amazon.

It found that:

* The majority of brands spend at least 1-3 hours a day managing listings content
* Most brands have had to contact Amazon for support with an issue
* Amazon can be slow to resolve problems.

The conclusion?: Uploading content to Amazon is simple, but quickly gets complicated if anything goes wrong.

Alongside the stats, we’ve included insights from our e-Comas content experts as to why problems are slow to resolve, and how using an agency can help.

### Case study

The white paper includes a complete case study of one of e-Comas’s clients, a large homeware brand with thousands of ASINs that uses e-Comas for daily management of its catalogue via PIM software.

The case study details:

* How we use PIM software on the client’s behalf
* How we separately manage the client’s Amazon Vendor catalogue
* The benefits of using PIM software and an eCommerce agency
* The style guide or ‘Content Manifesto’ we wrote for the client.

### Our services

Chapter 4 of the white paper gives a rundown of e-Comas’s content management services for brands. They include, among others:

* Writing product listings
* Syndicating listings
* Content audit
* Image upload
* A+ design and build
* Brand Store design
* Troubleshooting.

We also mention our Content Tracker, a new, proprietary tool that provides e-Comas clients with data-backed insights into their listings quality.

Jérôme adds: “In summary, managing a large catalogue on Amazon and across other marketplaces is time-consuming and resource-heavy, and benefits hugely from agency help and product information management (PIM) software.

“Our findings in this white paper are really interesting: for example, the way people find content simple to upload but more complex to edit; and the fact that so many brands still don’t have a Brand Store. All of Amazon’s content tools seem simple on paper, but we know can be much trickier in practice. And there are so many different aspects of content to consider.

“Any brand, large or small, can benefit from agency help. We’re here to guide our clients, and be the vital middleman between them and the wonderful Amazon Support team – just get in touch if you need us.”

[D﻿ownload the white paper today!](https://e-comas.com/white-paper-form.html)

<!--EndFragment-->